Artist's Statement

For this project, “A Night at the Movies”, the objective was to create a project inspired by a film of my choice. The film that my work is inspired by is “Monsters University”, and my focus was to create an interactive scene from the film. My simulation/game is based on one of the events from the “Scare Games” in which the main characters (Mike, Sully, and their frat team) competed against other college teams in a race through a tunnel. As an additional challenge, as they raced through the tunnel, the competitors had to avoid coming into contact with “stinging glow urchins” which were made to resemble the “toxic toys” of human children which are labelled by the monsters in the film as toxic. In the case that one did come into contact with one of the urchins, he/she would immediately have an allergic reaction in which he/she would experience painful and abnormally large swelling at the place of contact which would in turn make it harder for him/her to win the race. To add one last complication to the race, the lights in the tunnel were shut off so that it was even harder for the competitors to see the “stinging glow urchins” which were only visible when they glowed.  

Similarly to the film, my simulation features a dark background littered with glowing circles which are only clearly visible when they glow. Using the keyboard arrow controls, the user has to navigate his/her way from the left side of the screen (the starting line) through the array of glowing circles to the right side of the screen (the finish line) without coming into contact with any of them. If the user touches a glowing circle once, the userCircle will “swell” which will make it harder for him/her to avoid the other circles when squeezing through tight spaces. If the user touches a glowing circle twice, they will have to start from the beginning. The speed of the userCircle is also intentionally slow enough that the user can control it through the glowing circles, but also fast/jittery enough that the user cannot just hold down the controls and breeze through the game.  

Because of the emphasis on the “toxic toys” of human children, this Scare Games event was known as “Toxicity”, hence the name of my project.
